License No.

Call Sign:

Date
Annexure – I

Terms & Conditions for Amateur Radio Wireless License
1. Utilization of the Amateur Station.— (1) The Amateur station shall be utilized for self-training in wireless
communication techniques, solely with a personal aim and without pecuniary interest.
Provided that the use of a licensed club station located in an institution/ school/ college/ university etc. is
admissible for technical studies and training in radio communication technique without pecuniary interest.
(2) The station shall be used for receiving and transmitting only on specified Amateur frequency band.
(3) The station shall not be operated by any other person(s) except the person duly Licensed by the Authority.
2.Messages.— (1) The exchange of communication shall be restricted to communicate with the stations listed in the
International Radio Amateur Call Books.
Provided that the Authority may restrict communication with the stations of some specific countries.
(2)The conversation/transmission in plain language shall be restricted to:—
(a) technology - mainly wireless equipment, radio propagation reports, signal strength, quality and tone of the signals;
and
(b) personal family matters and weather, excluding politics, religion or any other subject of controversial nature.
(3)The conversation/transmission of the following shall be prohibited:—
(a) music or any other taped broadcast material;
(b)any misleading calls, signals, news, advertisements, business matters or other public affairs, so as to cause offence and
arouse racial, religious or communal enmity;
(c)messages for any pecuniary reward or commercial messages for third parties;
(4) In case of national emergencies and other natural calamities such as floods, cyclone, wild fire, earthquake and war
etc., the licensee and its equipment can be called upon at the request of the Authority or Federal Government to extend
help and co-operation to provide communication service.
3.Frequency, power & interference control.— (1) An Amateur station shall be operated only on the frequency
bands allowed by the Authority.
(2) The licensee shall be properly trained and equipped with proper instruments to ensure the accuracy of
frequency and emitted power of the equipment used.
(3) The licensee shall be responsible for radiating a clean signal free of all harmonics and spurious emission etc.
(4) The licensee shall be held responsible for causing interference of any kind to all other Wireless Services including
disturbance to the neighbors in respect of TV and Radio broadcast.
4.Record of operation (Log -Book).— (1) A station Log-Book must be maintained by every licensee according to the
format as prescribed in Annex-I of these terms and conditions containing information about the date, time, stations
worked, RST (Readability, Strength, Tone) reports and any other information about propagation.
(2) Any illegal/pirate signals or distress "May Day" call or any other signals pertaining to national or international issues
heard on the Amateur Bands may be recorded and handed over to the concerned authority as soon as possible.
Provided that such information shall not be passed on to any other person or a third party.
(3) The licensee shall be responsible for proper maintenance of Log-book and make readily available for inspection to the
Authority's authorized inspectors.
(4) The licensee may at any time be called upon to present his Station 'Log-book' in the office of the Authority, if
and when so desired.
(5) The Licenses issued to Societies, Clubs and Teaching/Training Institutions shall be asked by the Authority to
report about their activities from time to time.
(6) The licensee shall submit an annual progress report about the operation of such station.
5. Safety and Secrecy.— (1) A licensee shall be personally responsible for the safe custody of the equipment against
trespassing by any unauthorized person.
(2) The station antenna shall be constructed/erected and located in such a manner so as not to cause any harm, damage or
risk to the life and property of any third party including any public utility services.
(3) All safety precautions against electrical shocks from high voltages both local power supplies or Static Atmospheric
Charges to the operator or anyone else shall be duly taken/ protected by the licensee.
(4) A licensee shall, if ever called upon by the Authority to pass on some important messages, shall do so without any
obligation and keep such operation confidential.
6. General operating procedures.— (1) The Radio Amateur Services can place special demands on its operators,
being a representative of the country on the 'Air'.
Provided that it involves special behavioral conduct, decorum and transmission ethics.

(2) The following special procedures shall be observed to operate the station:—
(a) never start the transmission without checking that the frequency is free;
(b)if the frequency is free, then give a call for the station that the licensee wants to communicate;
(c)'Call Sign' of the called station as well as licensee's own call sign shall be spelled out in the 'Phonetic
Alphabets' and figure code, as given in the ITU Conventions.
(d)in case the licensee finds a station giving 'CQ' call specially for' AP2',then listen carefully and after the calling
station 'passes' over , then start transmission on the same frequency by the licensee's call-sign repeating
both his and the licensee's call-sign - (in phonetic if necessary) three times and listen again on the
frequency;
Provided that if the station calls the licensee back, then the 'QSO' may continue.
Provided further that in case some other station has in the meantime established the contact with that
station, then wait till their 'QSO' ends, the licensee may then try again by calling the same station.
(e)in case the frequency is free and there is no callings station, the licensee can give a general 'CQ' call for about three
times repeating the licensee's 'Call Sign' both in simple and Phonetic Alphabets and close the licensee's
transmission by saying 'Over' "AP2... listening carefully for any possible call";
Provided that the licensee may call other amateur stations who are specially interested for a QSO.
(f)after the licensee has finished the' QSO' with one or more stations, an operator may declare that he/she is
closing the transmissions 'QRT' and pass on greetings '73,s' to the last station worked; Provided that before
closing down/switching off, however, a good operator listens/scans around the whole band for any signal of
special interest.
(g)The testing/adjustments of Receiver, Transmitter and Antenna shall be carried out carefully taking all
precautions not to cause any disturbance or interference; and
(h) Transmitter and Antenna shall be tested on low power prior to full power preferable with a 'Dummy
Load'.
Provided that the test shall be completed in the shortest possible time. Simple/ un-modulated' Carrier' shall never be
connected to the antenna for more than 30 seconds.
7.Inspection.—(1) An officer duly authorized by the Authority can enter and inspect the Amateur wireless station
including its equipment, antenna, instruments and Log-Book.
Provided that the licensee shall extend all help and assistance to authorized inspector.
(2) A licensee when called upon in writing shall appear in the office of the Authority along with all the information.
8.Indemnity.—(1)The Licensee shall indemnify the Authority against all actions, claims and demands which may be brought
or made by any person, body corporate or company in respect of any injury, damage or loss arising from any act,
licensed or permitted by the license.
(2) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Authority or any member or employee of the
Authority in respect of anything done or intended to be done by the Authority in good faith.
9. In case of Foreigner only—
a) Obligation / Restriction for Foreign Amateur: Holder of establishment of license of Amateur Radio
Station cannot perform the following activities:
i. Use of ciphering / coding equipment.
ii. Communication with I countries with which Pakistan does not have any diplomatic relations.
iii. To receive and send International messages to the agencies belonging to other sources.
iv. To use the message, which are not clear and non-understandable.
v. Aiding criminal activities.
vi. Engaging in obscenity, profanity and indecency.
vii. Import / carrying his/her equipment without prior approval from the Authority.
viii. New call sign will be assigned with suffix "F" for distinction and shall not be allowed to operate with
his/her home country's call sign.
10. Mobile or Portable Station—
Use of mobile or portable station in Pakistan is not allowed.

.

xx
For and on behalf of the Licensee
Office Stamp

For and on behalf of PTA
Director (RBS), PTA Headquarters, Islamabad
Office Stamp

Page 1 of 2

License No.

Call Sign:

Date

Annexure – I

Terms & Conditions for Amateur Radio Wireless License
Date

Time (UTC)
Start
Finish

Freq.

Mode

Station Called/
Worked

RST Report
Sent
Rec'd

Remarks

QSL
S

R

QSO
No.

Note:
i. The Station Log-Book must be properly printed and Bound or PC based electronic Log-Book may be maintained in operator's PC and
should be presented on demand.
ii. It should register all operations performed at the station.
iii. It should always be kept readily available at the Station.
iv. Name of the operator of station contacted and location may be entered in Remarks column.

xx
For and on behalf of the Licensee
Office Stamp

For and on behalf of PTA
Director (RBS), PTA Headquarters, Islamabad
Office Stamp

Page 2 of 2

